= branch_db

* http://github.com/mschuerig/branch_db

== DESCRIPTION:

Give each git branch its own databases for ActiveRecord.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* alpha quality
* create, delete, copy git branch-specific databases using rake tasks
* automatic switching based on currently checked out branch

== SYNOPSIS:

Put the following block of code into config/environment.rb *before*
Rails::Initializer.run. This code ensures that the database is 
automatically switched, based on the checked out git branch.

  # config/environment.rb
  ...
  require 'branch_db/configuration_twiddler'
  Rails::Configuration.class_eval do
    include ::BranchDb::ConfigurationTwiddler
  end
  ...

In config/database.yml, mark the configuration that may have
databases specific to current branch

  # config/database.yml
  development: &development
    adapter: postgresql
    database: myproject_development
    host: localhost
    port: 5432
    per_branch: true

To your Rakefile or a file in lib/tasks add

  require 'tasks/db_branches'

Then you can use these rake tasks to manage your databases.

  rake db:branches:list
      List all branch databases

  rake db:branches:current
      Currently selected databases.

  rake db:branches:create
      Create empty databases for a branch. Current or BRANCH.

  rake db:branches:copy
      Copy databases from one branch to another.
      Default is from ORIG_BRANCH=master to BRANCH=<current branch>

  rake db:branches:delete
      Delete databases for a branch given by BRANCH

Say, you have a configuration as above and you're currently on
git branch "feature" when you decide that you need a database
specific to this branch. Then

  ~/projects/myproject (feature*)$ rake db:branches:copy ORIG_BRANCH=master

will give you a copy of the database from branch "master".
If your branch already has a database that you want to overwrite,
add OVERWRITE=true to the command line.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* ActiveRecord

== INSTALL:

* sudo gem install mschuerig-branch_db

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Michael Schuerig

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.